# Border-Crossing-Visualization-and-Analysis
US Border crossings has been a worrisome issue over the years. Many undocumented immigrants in the United States came to the US through one of the US Borders with Mexico and Canada. A list of the States in the US sharing Border with Mexico and Canada includes Texas, California, Florida, New Mexico, Arizona, New York, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, Washington, Alaska, Ohio, Vermont, Idaho, New Hampshire, and Pennsylvania. This issue of illegal crossing into the US is a major policy focus of the presidency of Donald J. Trump.  Since the assumption of office in January 2017, President Trump  made effort to stop illegal immigration into the country by arresting, detaining and returning illegal immigrant to their country of origin. In order to stem the flow of illegal immigration particularly from US-Mexico Border, President Trump also promoted the building a solid wall that cut across the Border States in the country.

For this practicum, the overall study will be done using R programming. The dataset was found in Kaggle and contains records from January 1996 to February 2020 of incoming traffic regarding those crossing into the United States. It comprises of 7 columns specifying the port and its unique code, the border, the mode of vehicle used, number of people crossing the border into the US, the date and time of crossing, and the state in which they entered. 

This study is focused on analyzing US Border Crossings viz a viz to identify which country is most associate US Border Crossings. Which US States is mostly use by illegal immigrants? Which are the busiest Ports?  What mode of transport are employed? How many vehicles, boats and pedestrians cross into the US, daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly? Which season of the year has a greater number of crossings?

Youtube Presentation Link: https://youtu.be/quDNGxglzsI
